PTCL is a company
PTCL is a telecommunication company
PTCL is an enterprise
PTCL has customers
you are a customer
Mb means mega-bits
1 Mb means 1 mega-bits
internet connects customers
internet connects people
ISP is internet service provider
high speed internet means fast internet
50 Mb means 50 mega-bits
telephone is used for calls
MB means mega byte
1 MB means 1 mega byte
50 MB means 50 mega bytes
1 byte has 8 bits
8 bits make 1 byte
duplicate means copy
computer is a device
you use a computer
high speed means fast
PTCL Internet service is internet connectivity at high speed and without having to dial the ISP number. This results in very fast download of information from the internet as soon as you switch on your computer.
multiple means many
simultaneous means at the same time
desktop is a computer
desktops are computers
laptop is a computer
psp means play station pocketsize
Yes, PTCL Internet offers Wi-Fi services. PTCL Internet Wi-Fi service enables multiple and simultaneous internet connectivity sessions using multiple devices such as Desktops, Laptops, PSP’s etc in a wire free home environment.
PTCL offers E-mail accounts
PTCL offers free personalized E-mail accounts
Yes, PTCL offers free personalized, spam free, 50 Mb E-Mail accounts exclusive for its Internet customers.
application form is found on PTCL website.
Islamabad is a city
Pakistan is a country
Islamabad is in Pakistan
Rawalpindi is in Pakistan
Lahore is in Pakistan
Karachi is in Pakistan
Peshawar is in Pakistan
Hyderabad is in Pakistan
Quetta is in Pakistan
Faisalabad is in Pakistan
Multan is in Pakistan
Gujranwala is in Pakistan
Sialkot is in Pakistan
Sheikhupura is in Pakistan
PTCL helpline is 1236
call PTCL at 1236
Order PTCL at 1218
you can order online
Modem is property 
Modem is property of PTCL
Simply visit PTCL website and submit the application form by clicking the relevant link. Your personalized e-mail ID along with all the details to access the service will be e-mailed on your existing e-mail account which you will be asked to provide in the application form within 48 hours.
PTCL offers Internet Service in more than 2000 cities across the Pakistan including Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Lahore, Karachi, Peshawar, Hyderabad, Quetta, Faisalabad, Multan, Gujranwala, Sialkot, and Sheikhupura. New cities are updated regularly. To know Internet Service is available in your city? Please call at our help line 1236
You can order PTCL Internet connection by simply calling 1218 or order online by visiting our website at www.ptcl.com.pk or visiting your nearest PTCL-Ufone Joint Shop.
Yes you can change your package, just call 1236.
You will be provided free modem till you use our services. One time Installation charges will be charged.Modem will remain property of PTCL.
Your PTCL Internet service will be installed on your existing telephone line. This means you can talk on your phone and access the Internet at the same time.
Your Internet charges will appear as a separate itemized charge on your monthly telephone bill.
There are no hidden charges. Package price accounts for internet access per month.
Our DSL installation team will visit your premises / home to evaluate the condition of your landline and then install/connect DSL modem.
No, there is no time limit, it is always on! You can be using Internet and voice facility 24/7 at the same time.
Yes, you can request for shifting the broadband service to another number or location just by calling 
PTCL helpline 0800 80800.
Yes. PTCL Internet is charged on monthly basis and is for Internet service only, i.e. an addition to your monthly telephone charges.
DSL will not work if phone line goes down. DSL service is dependent on the functional connection and quality of copper phone line.
PTCL landline phone connection with default Freedom package is a prerequisite for DSL service. Line rent is charged on every landline phone connection.
FUP means Fair Usage Policy. 
Yes, customer can avail static IP on his Internet connection.
Static IP will be provided in 48 hours.
Yes, PTCL is providing Wi-Fi dongle
Charges of USB Wi-Fi are Rs. 500
You can request for static IP through helpline 1236.
TAT for existing customers is 3 Days and to new broadband customer is 5 Days.
Freedom package is free with 8 MB package.
There are no monthly charges on Smart TV with an 8 MB package, customers only have to pay for the Set Top Box (STB).
Free Wi-Fi modem is provided by PTCL on new connection.
Yes
Link for duplicate bill is Dbill.ptcl.net.pk
You can check IP from whatismyip.com
New Broadband over existing Landline Rs. 2,499/- inclusive of Tax.
New Double Play (Landline+Broadband) Rs. 5,000/- inclusive of Tax.
New Telephone Rs. 2,000 inclusive of Tax
New Double Play (Landline+Broadband): Rs. 3,000 inclusive of Tax
You can order PTCL Internet connection by simply calling 1218 or order online by visiting our website at www.ptcl.com.pk or visiting your nearest PTCL-Ufone Joint Shop/Service Centers. Customers who order a new connection will be required to first pay the installation charges and once payment is received, order installation process starts. You will be informed via SMS & e-mails about order installation.
You can order PTCL Telephone connection by simply calling 1218 or order online by visiting our website at www.ptcl.com.pk or visiting your nearest PTCL-UFone Joint Shop/Service Center. Customers, who order a new connection will be required to first pay the installation charges and once payment is received, order installation process starts. You will be informed via SMS & e-mails about order installation.
Yes, PTCL offers free personalized, spam free, 50 Mb E-Mail accounts exclusive for its Internet customers.
PTCL Internet is internet connectivity at high speed and without having to dial the ISP number. This results in very fast download of information from the internet as soon as you switch on your computer